README.md, before:

# LTAPI

API to access LiveTraffic's aircraft information.
Data transfer from LiveTraffic to your plugin is by dataRefs in a fast, efficient way: LiveTraffic copies data of several planes combined into defined structures. LTAPI handles all that in the background and provides you with an array of aircraft information with numerical info like position, heading, speed and textual info like type, registration, call sign, flight number.

## LTAPI files and Documentation

You only need to include 2 files into your own projects:

- `LTAPI.cpp`
- `LTAPI.h`

Both files include lots of comments in Doxygen style as **documentation**. The generated Doxygen documentation is available in `docs/html/index.html` or on
[GitHub pages](https://twinfan.github.io/LTAPI/html/index.html).

## Example Plugin Implementation

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/TwinFan/LTAPI.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/TwinFan/LTAPI)

The `Example` folder includes an example X-Plane plugin (based on the [Hello World plugin](https://developer.x-plane.com/code-sample/hello-world-sdk-3/)), which demonstrates the most simplistic usage as well as an enhanced way of using the API by subclassing the provided `LTAPIAircraft` class.

The plugin just opens two windows and shows information about LiveTraffic's aircrafts as text.

### Simple Example

...starts at around line 195 of `LTAPIExample.xpp`. Look for `MARK: LTAPI Simple Example`. It just

- uses a static `LTAPIConnect` object,
- calls its function `UpdateAcList()` every second via a flight loop callback, and
- loops the resulting map of aircrafts for display of textual information in the output window.

### Enhanced Example

...starts at around line 269 of `LTAPIExample.xpp`. Look for `MARK: LTAPI Enhanced Example`. This demonstrates how to use `LTAPIAircraft` as a base class for some own class. Often, you have your own way of representing aircrafts in your app already. You can add `LTAPIAircraft` as a base class and then don't need to copy information back and forth but have access to it right from within your own class.

For this to work you

- need to subclass `LTAPIAircraft`,
- may want to do init/cleanup work in the constructor and destructor,
- may want to override `virtual bool updateAircraft()` so that you can do some own work whenever a/c information changes,
- must provide a callback for creating new empty objects when `LTAPIConnect::UpdateAcList()` finds a new aircraft in the sky.
- most likely want to handle the list of removed aircrafts (before they are destroyed) similar to what `LoopCBUpdateAcListEnhanced` does.

All the rest of the code deals with the example's functionality, which is:

- The class `EnhAircraft` also manages the line number in the output display, i.e. once it found a line it stays there. Also allows to show text "---removed---" for some time when a/c was removed.
- Each line provides more information as the simple example and renders that info in fairly well aligned columns.

## Building the Example

- Mac: Open the XCode project `LTAPI.xcodeproj`. There might be paths you way want to check: In the Build Settings there is a user-defined setting `XPLANE11_ROOT` pointing to the root folder of your X-Plane 11 installation. If that is set correctly then the resulting plugin is installed there correctly in the `plugins` folder.
- Windows: Open the Visual Studio solution `LTAPI.sln`. Also here you might need to check directories. There is a copy command to my X-Plane installation in the _Post Build Event_.
- Linux: As I don't have a Linux environment myself I provide a Docker environment to build the Linux version based on a `CMakeList`. I have not tested the resulting binary `LTAPIExample-lin.xpl`. Can't even say if it starts.
  - You need [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started) installed. The, with Docker app running:
  - `cd Example/docker`
  - `make`

## What it looks like

This is a screenshot taken from the Example plugin included in this project:

![LTAPI Example Screenshot](Example/LTAPIExample.png)

Commit message:

Added section on using Travis CI

README.md, after:

# LTAPI

API to access LiveTraffic's aircraft information.
Data transfer from LiveTraffic to your plugin is by dataRefs in a fast, efficient way: LiveTraffic copies data of several planes combined into defined structures. LTAPI handles all that in the background and provides you with an array of aircraft information with numerical info like position, heading, speed and textual info like type, registration, call sign, flight number.

## LTAPI files and Documentation

You only need to include 2 files into your own projects:

- `LTAPI.cpp`
- `LTAPI.h`

Both files include lots of comments in Doxygen style as **documentation**. The generated Doxygen documentation is available in `docs/html/index.html` or on
[GitHub pages](https://twinfan.github.io/LTAPI/html/index.html).

## Example Plugin Implementation

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/TwinFan/LTAPI.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/TwinFan/LTAPI)

The `Example` folder includes an example X-Plane plugin (based on the [Hello World plugin](https://developer.x-plane.com/code-sample/hello-world-sdk-3/)), which demonstrates the most simplistic usage as well as an enhanced way of using the API by subclassing the provided `LTAPIAircraft` class.

The plugin just opens two windows and shows information about LiveTraffic's aircrafts as text.

### Simple Example

...starts at around line 195 of `LTAPIExample.xpp`. Look for `MARK: LTAPI Simple Example`. It just

- uses a static `LTAPIConnect` object,
- calls its function `UpdateAcList()` every second via a flight loop callback, and
- loops the resulting map of aircrafts for display of textual information in the output window.

### Enhanced Example

...starts at around line 269 of `LTAPIExample.xpp`. Look for `MARK: LTAPI Enhanced Example`. This demonstrates how to use `LTAPIAircraft` as a base class for some own class. Often, you have your own way of representing aircrafts in your app already. You can add `LTAPIAircraft` as a base class and then don't need to copy information back and forth but have access to it right from within your own class.

For this to work you

- need to subclass `LTAPIAircraft`,
- may want to do init/cleanup work in the constructor and destructor,
- may want to override `virtual bool updateAircraft()` so that you can do some own work whenever a/c information changes,
- must provide a callback for creating new empty objects when `LTAPIConnect::UpdateAcList()` finds a new aircraft in the sky.
- most likely want to handle the list of removed aircrafts (before they are destroyed) similar to what `LoopCBUpdateAcListEnhanced` does.

All the rest of the code deals with the example's functionality, which is:

- The class `EnhAircraft` also manages the line number in the output display, i.e. once it found a line it stays there. Also allows to show text "---removed---" for some time when a/c was removed.
- Each line provides more information as the simple example and renders that info in fairly well aligned columns.

## Building the Example

- Mac: Open the XCode project `LTAPI.xcodeproj`. There might be paths you way want to check: In the Build Settings there is a user-defined setting `XPLANE11_ROOT` pointing to the root folder of your X-Plane 11 installation. If that is set correctly then the resulting plugin is installed there correctly in the `plugins` folder.
- Windows: Open the Visual Studio solution `LTAPI.sln`. Also here you might need to check directories. There is a copy command to my X-Plane installation in the _Post Build Event_.
- Linux: As I don't have a Linux environment myself I provide a Docker environment to build the Linux version based on a `CMakeList`. I have not tested the resulting binary `LTAPIExample-lin.xpl`. Can't even say if it starts.
  - You need [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started) installed. The, with Docker app running:
  - `cd Example/docker`
  - `make`

## Building with Travis CI

A [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.com/) configuration file `.travis.yml` is included,
which allows to build all three platforms natively on Travis servers.
If you are interested in using Travis CI please see
[their tutorial](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/tutorial/).

If using the provided `.travis.yml` configuration, then the resulting
binaries are "deployed" to GitHub Releases of the same repository
as a non-public draft release. For this deployment to work you need to

- create a [GitHub Personal access token](https://github.com/settings/tokens),
- define the environment variable `GITHUB_TOKEN` in the
  [Travis repository settings](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/environment-variables/#defining-variables-in-repository-settings), and
- assign it the GitHub personal access token as its value.

## What it looks like

This is a screenshot taken from the Example plugin included in this project:

![LTAPI Example Screenshot](Example/LTAPIExample.png)
